Adding Beta-2 RN to the 5.4.0-BETA-2 branch (#1001)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/release-notes/pages/5-4-0.adoc

= 5.4.0-BETA-2 Release Notes

CAUTION: Starting with this release of Hazelcast Platform, the minimum supported Java version is 17.

== New Features

> * **User Code Namespaces**: Enable deployment, undeployment and redeployment of your custom classes.

Author: I don't see it is merged (/clusters/user-code-namespaces.adoc). We can always direct the users when the content is there. When it is merged, we can cross-reference it to the "Removed/Deprecated Features" section, where we mention UCD is deprecated.

https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24673[#24763]
* Added the `deleteAsync()` for maps to asynchronously remove a provided map entry key.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/23509[#23509]
* Fixed the Javadoc for caches where it was referring incorrectly to statistics instead of management, for the `setManagementEnabled()` method.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/22575[#22575]
* Implemented RAFT lifecycle interfaces for CPMap. #6800
* Added the `getCPGroupIds()` method to the CP Subsystem API to allow listing all data structures within a CP group. #591
* The "last update time" record of the map entries recovered from the disk persistence is not used anymore when calculating the entries' expiration times. #233
* [.enterprise]*Enterprise* Added the ability to check whether the `ADVANCED_CP` feature is present in the Hazelcast Platform Enterprise license, to enable CPMap. #157

=== [.enterprise]*Enterprise* WAN Replication

* Improved dead connection handling for WAN replication static IP discovery, by introducing health check to the discovery strategy.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/25364[#25364]

> * Added support for the dynamic adding of WAN replication configurations using Java API.

Reviewer: It depends on context for me - normally singular is right but if this feature enables dynamically adding different configurations then it's fine. Are there instances where you would have different configurations for WAN replication?

> * Added support for the dynamic adding of WAN replication configurations using Java API.

Author: This is not related to configuring multiple files, but configuring multiple elements "in the configuration file".

* Fixed an issue where there was a difference between the elapsed clock time and elapsed total time when listening to migration events.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/25028[#25028]
* Fixed an issue where the transaction in the Kafka producer was not committed when a batch job is finished.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/25024[#25024]
* Fixed an issue where data events were being fired through WAN replication after a split-brain, even there were no changes in data.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24928[#24928]
* Fixed an issue where the lite members were not reporting statistics for map operations.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24871[#24871]
* Fixed an issue where the blacklisting was being ignored after a split-brain happens.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24830[#24830]
* Fixed an issue where the Kinesis sink might loose data, when retrying on failures, during a terminal snapshot.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24779[#24779]
* Fixed an issue where the member list was not updated after a cluster failover scenario.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24745[#24745]

> * Fixed an issue where the batches produced for write-behind queues were not having the expected size of entries.

Author: size means number of entries within this context.

 https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/24763[#24763]
* Fixed an issue where the fused Jet vertex was ignoring the configured local parallelism and using the default parallelism instead.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/issues/24683[#24683]

> * Fixed an issue where Hazelcast was sending empty map interceptor information to the members which are newly joined to the cluster; it was causing eager map initializations.

Author: I saw you changed "that" to "which" in some other former PRs :).  Any when-to-use-what standardization on this?

> https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24639[#24639]

Reviewer 2: need to add something for anesoruk's Kafka partitions initial offsets contribution: https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/21546

Author: @rebekah-lawrence , the related PR is still open, and I agree with https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/996/files#r1479912945

Author: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1001/commits/479bf5651dc132c047124c3fd8277573cca8be97

With this fix, only the members on which the jobs have not been completed are queried for metrics; for completed jobs, the metrics are already retrieved from the completed jobs context. #194
* Fixed an issue where the attribute partitioning strategy was not working with Compact and Portable classes. #127

== Removed/Deprecated Features

* The connector for Elasticsearch 6 is removed, as the Elasticsearch 6 module is removed from Hazelcast distributions.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/24734[#24734]
* The evaluation tool for IMDG 3.x users (Hazelcast 3 Connector) is removed. In the upcoming releases, a new tooling for migrating data from 3.x versions will be introduced.
https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/pull/25051[#25051]
* Transactions are deprecated, will be removed as of Hazelcast Platform version 7.0.
** Only maintenance support will be provided for transactions.
** Transactions will no longer be actively developed.
** Issues arising from new or existing implementations of transactions will no longer be supported.
+

> In the meantime, if you are already using transactions and want to discuss alternatives, please get in touch with xref:getting-started:support.adoc[Hazelcast Support].

Author: We will clarify this with Avtar this week

> In the meantime, if you are already using transactions and want to discuss alternatives, please get in touch with xref:getting-started:support.adoc[Hazelcast Support].

Reviewer: I'm thinking the line might need revised/clarified or even removed tbh:
> Any issues arising from new or existing implementations of transactions will not be supported.
The sentences either side of it probably cover it sufficiently.

> In the meantime, if you are already using transactions and want to discuss alternatives, please get in touch with xref:getting-started:support.adoc[Hazelcast Support].

Reviewer: Revising my above suggested change to remove that line ^

> * Transactions are deprecated, will be removed as of Hazelcast Platform version 7.0.
> ** Only maintenance support will be provided for transactions.
> ** Transactions will no longer be actively developed.
> ** Issues arising from new or existing implementations of transactions will no longer be supported.
> +
> In the meantime, if you are already using transactions and want to discuss alternatives, please get in touch with xref:getting-started:support.adoc[Hazelcast Support].

Reviewer: Alt suggestion is just to use what was put into main docs:
```suggestion
Transactions have been deprecated, and will be removed as of Hazelcast version 7.0. An improved version of this feature is under consideration. If you are already using transactions, get in touch and share your use case. Your feedback will help us to develop a solution that meets your needs.
```
